# Solar-power-prediction

Abstract: The contribution of power production by photovoltaic systems to the electricity supply is constantly increasing. An efficient use of the fluctuating solar power production will highly benefit from forecast information on the expected power production. This forecast information is necessary for the management of the electricity grids and for solar energy trading. According to a recent report from Greentech Media, the American energy storage market officially hit a milestone in the fourth quarter of 2017, deploying over 1000 cumulative megawatt-hours of storage between 2013 and 2017(1). The report also predicted that this number would double this year. As storage capacity increases and new technologies emerge, artificial intelligence is helping make usage more efficient. So, for proper design of your solar plus storage system, sound knowledge about irradiance-based power prediction model is critical. Our aim is to provide a review of the popular and practiced forecasting models and evaluate their performance to select the best appropriate model that meets our requirements.

Data Sources: The weather data from July ’16 to December ’17, with the following inputs are obtained from NREL Measurements and Instrumentation Data Center(6) -Date, hourly values of GHI, DNI, DHI, air temperature, wind speed, average relative humidity, average station pressure, average Zenith and Azimuth angles.Hourly power output (actual) values for the same period is obtained from pvoutput.org. The physical solar power calculation is necessary for finding presence of any erroneous values in the data. This is obtained from Sandia PV Performance Modelling Collaborative Python library.

Prediction Models – Analysis and Results: The final merged dataset has 12,744 observations and the training and test data split is using Scikit Learn’s helper function train_test_split (75% train data and 25% test data). With these data, the below mentioned models are run, their accuracy and performance is evaluated as a measure of R2 score. The top performing models are selected as appropriate models for our requirements
